[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What a subtle
process, this ashram,
dealing with that which
is formless through form.
Dealing with the way which is
uncharted and most ancient.
How we eat, and walk, and
talk, and play, and work.
Exploring how to take the moment
to moment experiences of life
and see them as passing
show, as graceful lessons,
as a divine offering.
We don't come away
from this ashram
with an intellectual
appreciation of karma yoga,
but with just the sense
that it's possible.
It's possible to be in
the world yet not of it.
It's possible to
be truly involved
in the process of life
with honor and with delight
but with no attachment.
It's possible to
review daily actions
and see them as a joyful
dialogue with god,
with guru, with self.
That perhaps we can
bring into focus
the tiny space that
surrounds all of the acts--
space of mindfulness, of
clarity, of quietness.
And in that space
to appreciate as we
would appreciate a sunrise, a
sunset, or a moon, or a fire.
The daily dance
of life, learning
to reverence the horrible
beauty of existence.
When we leave the mountain,
if we have learned what
is to be learned,
truly have become it,
and if we have become it,
we need not remember it.
For to remember is to take
you away from the moment.
For memories are but moldering
butterflies in our collection.
And if the message
of this ashram
has been heard in
our bones, the going
will be as joyful as the
being here and as meaningful.
For in every
experience of light,
is just the information you need
for the next step of awakening.
And one deciphers the message
not with the intellect,
but with the intuitive heart.
And the intuitive
heart functions
when the mind is quiet.
So the ashram is but a
continuing part of the journey.
There are many of
us on the path.
We come together for a moment,
acknowledging our existence,
sharing the joy of knowing
we're on the path together.
We go apart, not to stop
the journey but to do
what we each need to do.
But just recognizing that there
are other pilgrims on the path
means that as long as you enter
into the space of the path,
you can never be lonely.
For we are a community,
not a community
of form, or a time, or space,
nevertheless a community.
We hear each other.
We look in each other's eyes,
and we recognize one another.
We stand next to each other
in the silence we know
and with a quiet joy that
comes from being together.
There have been hard moments,
and tough edges, and lack
of compassion shown
here and there
because we must face our stuff.
We still have stuff.
All of us have our work of
incarnation in the world.
Finally for each of us, the
world must become our ashram.
And all human beings on it
have to become our satsanga
or asanga.
You just accept that you are
not going back to anything.
You are going towards something.
There is no going back.
But in our real journey
towards liberation,
I wish you all godspeed.
Myself, too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]